DONE pages 15, 16, 32, 34,39,40,41,73, 161, 174, 
TODO 289,313

pg.34
"Implications for Managing the Data Science Team
It is tempting—but usually a mistake—to view the data mining process as a software
development cycle" ...
"This can be a mistake because data mining is an exploratory undertaking closer to
research and development than it is to engineering"

pg.35
Software skills versus analytics skills
Although data mining involves software, it also requires skills that may
not be common among programmers. In software engineering, the
ability to write efficient, high-quality code from requirements may be
paramount. Team members may be evaluated using software metrics
such as the amount of code written or number of bug tickets closed.
In analytics, it’s more important for individuals to be able to formu‐
late problems well, to prototype solutions quickly, to make reason‐
able assumptions in the face of ill-structured problems, to design ex‐
periments that represent good investments, and to analyze results. In
building a data science team, these qualities, rather than traditional
software engineering expertise, are skills that should be sought.


 differentiate profitable
customers from unprofitable ones. This is the realm of data science, using data
mining techniques for automated pattern finding
	- what is this "automated pattern finding"?

	Syntactic similarity is not semantic similarity. 

190
Using supervised learning with to provide cluster description:
	Sometimes when you come-up with clusters it's quite difficult to see what the over-arching theme is and sometimes it's readily apparent upon visual inspection. Fitting a classifier to the cluster labels while maintaining the same feature space we can create an attribute-wise description of the each of the cluster. 

	There is a distinction in fitting the classifier pooled/unpooled: one will yield how a single class differs from the rest and the other will yield how the all differ from eachother universally. 

	Analogy: there are universal qualities for attractiveness agreeable among all communities then there are those unique to each community individiually.

	Creating a description: interpreting a decision tree is the strongest, logistic reg: beta weights, infomation gain.

	Caveat: this method highlights the differentiable characteristics, not the characteristics that the clusters have in common with the rest. It's a good way to ask "what's unique about this cluster?" So the clustering method clusters examples based on similarities but the classifier highlights differentials.

look-up behavioral profiling on log-normal distribution